# MINLP-for-3phase-grids

Title: An accurate MINLP formulation for selecting conductors in three-phase asymmetric networks: computational implementation in Julia software

Abstract: Population growth and technological advancements have driven a significant increase in global electricity consumption, necessitating the expansion of power generation, transmission, and distribution. This has led grid operators to redesign systems for more efficient energy supply, with a particular focus on the selection of conductors in unbalanced three-phase networks with a view to reducing costs. This paper presents the computational implementation of the mathematical model, in complex variable, representing the conductor selection problem using Julia software. The main objective of this document is to establish a guided tutorial for the reader, teaching from the three-phase power flow formulation in distribution systems to the computational implementation of the conductor selection problem in single-hour and multi-period scenarios using the Julia programming software. The implementation and solution of the mathematical models were carried out using \texttt{JuMP} optimization environment and the \texttt{Bonmin} solver. They were validated with test systems of 8 and 27 nodes for the single-hour scenario, and 25 and 37 nodes for the multi-period scenario. In a single period, the 8-node system had total costs of  455,970.34 USD in balanced operation and 558,758.39 USD in unbalanced operation; the 27-node system had costs of 550,671.68 USD in balanced operation and 589,726.78 USD in unbalanced operation. In multiple periods, the 25-node system had costs of 96,485.89 USD, and the 37-node system had costs of 193,756.31 USD. The results show that the exact solution of the mathematical model outperforms the metaheuristic algorithms reported in the literature, achieving the best possible solution with reduced processing time.

Authors:
Brandon Cortes-Caicedo, Facultad de Ingeniería, Institución Universitaria Pascual Bravo, Campus Robledo, Medellín 050036, Colombia
Oscar Danilo Montoya, Grupo de Compatibilidad e Interferencia Electromagnética, Facultad de Ingeniería, Universidad Distrital Francisco José de Caldas, Bogotá 110231, Colombia
